# ê¸°ë³¸ ì˜ì–´ ì‹œê°„ í‘œí˜„ ë° ë°œìŒ : in 5 days / 5 days from now ðŸ’¬ " months ", " half "
When does your flight(plane) arrive?  
= When is your flight(plane) arriving?  

It's arriving (It arrives) on June 30th at 8PM. //6ì›” 30ì¼ ì˜¤í›„ 8ì‹œì— ë„ì°©í•´  
I'm arriving (I arrive) on June 30th at 8PM.  

I'm arriving (I arrive/ It's arriving/ It arrives) **in five days**  //5ì¼ ë’¤ì— ë„ì°©í•´  
I'm going to Santorini in 3 days.  
The conference will be held in 75 days.   
(in two and a half months/ two and a half months from now)  
- ë‘ ì‹œê°„ ë°˜: two and a half hours  
- í•œ ì‹œê°„ ë°˜: one and a half hours  [ì›Œë‚´ëŠ-í–…]  

What day is it today?   //ì˜¤ëŠ˜ ë¬´ìŠ¨ ìš”ì¼ì´ì§€?  


# ê¸°ì´ˆ ì˜ì–´ íšŒí™” íŒ¨í„´âš¡ï¸show ëˆ„êµ¬ how to -- // ëˆ„êµ¬ì—ê²Œ -- í•˜ëŠ” ë°©ë²•ì„ ë³´ì—¬ ì£¼ë‹¤ / ê°€ë¥´ì³ ì£¼ë‹¤
My mom showed me how to (cook/use chopsticks/make sandwiches/bake cookies/dance/swim/drive/fight)  
I showed my son how to use a knife.  
I showed my son how to do the dishes.  
My mom taught me how to appreciate life.  
I showed my boss how to send files.  
My mom gave me the directions.  
I showed my dad how to text with his phone.  
> how to ~ ë’·ë¶€ë¶„ì´ ê°•ì¡°ë¨.  

ì˜¤ëŠ˜ íšŒì‚¬ì—ì„œ ìƒì‚¬í•œí…Œ íŒŒì¼ ì „ì†¡í•˜ëŠ” ë²•ì„ ë³´ì—¬ ì¤˜ì•¼ í–ˆì–´.  
Today at work, I had to show my boss how to send files.  
> at work ê°€ ë¨¼ì € ë‚˜ì˜¤ëŠ”ê²Œ ì–´ìƒ‰í•˜ì§€ ì•ŠìŒ.  

ì—¬ëŸ¬ë²ˆ ë³´ì—¬ ë“œë ¸ëŠ”ë° ì–´ë ¤ì›Œ í•˜ì‹œë”ë¼.  
I showed it to him many times, but he had trouble with it/but he couldn't get the hang of it.  
> I showed it to him.   //ë³´ì—¬ë“œë ¸ì–´.  
> I just gave it to her.  //ê·¸ëƒ¥ ë“œë ¸ì–´.  
> I just gave them to her.  
> I just gave them everything.  
 
# (ë¯¸ë‹ˆê°•ì˜) " ì´ë²ˆ ì£¼ì— ë§Œë‚˜ê³  ì‹¶ì—ˆëŠ”ë° ëª¸ì´ ì•ˆ ì¢‹ì•„ì„œ ë‹¤ìŒ ì£¼ì— ë§Œë‚˜ê¸°ë¡œ í–ˆì–´. " (ì‹¤ì‹œê°„ ë°©ì†¡ í´ë¦½)
I want to make kimchi this week but I hurt my back so I couldn't  
> í—ˆë¦¬ë¥¼ ë‹¤ì¹˜ë‹¤: hurt my back  

I want to ride my bicycle today but it was so windy so I decided not to.  
> I decided not to  //ì•ˆ í•˜ê¸°ë¡œ í–ˆë‹¤.

I wanted to meet[ë°‘] my friend this week but I didn't[ë””ë¦°] feel very well so I decided not to.
I wanted to meet my friend this week but I didn't feel very well so I decided to meet next week.
